Project Title:

Generic Card Game

Author(s):

Iremide (manager)
Nick (primary developer)
AI assistant (supporting code generation and refinement)
All artwork and visual assets by Nick

Date:

October 24, 2025

1. Overview

Generic Card Game is a single-player, turn-based card battler built using Python and Pygame. The player faces a progressively tougher AI opponent, upgrading their cards and drawing power between rounds through an in-game shop system.

The game’s theme blends chaotic humor and strategy, accompanied by a high-energy soundtrack made up of Ruder Buster by Toby Fox

2. System Requirements
Hardware Requirements

CPU: 2.0 GHz Dual-Core or higher

RAM: 4 GB minimum

Storage: ~200 MB (including assets and dependencies)

Display: 800x600 minimum resolution

Sound: Required for background music

Software Requirements

Operating System: Windows 10/11, macOS, or Linux

Python Version: 3.10 or newer

Libraries Required:

pygame

os, sys, random (standard Python libraries)

Install dependencies with:

pip install pygame

3. Installation and Setup
1. Download or Clone Repository

Place all project files in one folder, such as:

GenericCardGame/
│
├── main.py
├── music.mp3
├── images/
│   ├── card0.png
│   ├── card1.png
│   ├── ...
│   ├── stonks.png
│   ├── treyvon.png
│   ├── vance.png
│
└── README.txt

2. Verify Folder Structure

All card and enemy images must be located inside /images.

The background music file (music.mp3) should be in the same directory as main.py.

3. Run the Game

Navigate to the game folder and run:

python main.py

4. Configuration
Music Integration

The file music.mp3 automatically loops in the background:

pygame.mixer.music.load(music_path)
pygame.mixer.music.play(-1)
pygame.mixer.music.set_volume(0.5)


Replace "music.mp3" with your own .mp3 file for a custom soundtrack.

Game Settings

All key constants (like screen size, card size, and button dimensions) can be edited at the top of the script:

SCREEN_WIDTH = 800
SCREEN_HEIGHT = 600
CARD_WIDTH = 100
CARD_HEIGHT = 150

5. Deployment Steps
A. Local Deployment (Development Build)

Ensure pygame is installed and updated.

Test the game by running main.py.

Verify that images and music load correctly.

Adjust performance settings (like frame rate or resolution) if needed.

B. Packaged Distribution (Executable Build)

To distribute the game without requiring Python:

Install PyInstaller:

pip install pyinstaller


Create a standalone build:

pyinstaller --onefile --add-data "images;images" --add-data "music.mp3;." main.py


The executable will appear under dist/main.exe (Windows) or dist/main (Mac/Linux).

6. User Instructions
Objective

Defeat AI-controlled enemies in each round using cards from your deck. After winning, spend earned coins in the shop to upgrade your stats or drawing ability.

Controls
Action	Mouse/Keyboard Input
Draw a card	Click “Draw Card” button
Play a card	Click on a card in your hand
Upgrade stats	Click on stat buttons in the shop
Confirm purchase	Click “Confirm” in the shop
Exit game	Close window
7. Post-Deployment Testing
Test Category	Description	Status
Game Launch	Runs without error on startup	✅
Image Loading	All images render correctly	✅
Music Playback	Background track loops properly	✅
Enemy AI	AI performs attacks each round	✅
Shop System	Coins and upgrades persist correctly	✅
Extra Draw	Additional card draws occur between rounds without turn loss	✅
Stability	No crashes during extended play sessions	✅
8. Known Issues & Future Improvements
Known Issues

No save/load functionality.

AI logic is basic (attacks first available card).

UI does not scale beyond 800x600 resolution.

Planned Improvements

Card rarity and ability system.

Multiple background tracks.

Optional difficulty settings.

Animated effects and smoother UI transitions.

9. Credits
Role | Contributor
Game Design & Direction	| Nick & Iremide
Programming & Logic	| Nick with AI assistance
Artwork & Visual Assets	| Nick
Soundtrack | Toby Fox
Engine | Pygame (Python)
10. Licensing

This project is provided for educational and entertainment purposes.
All AI-generated content (text and code) may be freely used or modified by the creator.
Images remains property of Nick
Music remains property of Toby Fox
